---
title: Module 6
--- 
# Module 6: The Future of Digital Citizen Rights: MyData - Personal Data at Your Disposal

### Learning outcomes of the module 

By taking this module you will be able to understand the potential of being able to control data generated about you and transfer from one place to another. You will understand the concept, personal benefits and general operation of MyData. The practical goal of the module is to help you have an idea of how you might use and your data might be used to create better services around you. 

## Introduction 

Take a look at this introductory video on MyData: 

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/qNf-GFjVM2s" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

What if you we able to change service providers easily by transferring and connecting your data to a new service by the push of a button?

What if you could understand and improve your wellbeing by connecting your health, fitness and nutrition data generated by self-made observations coupled with data from wearables and medical tests?  

Being able to do this is the promise of a society where data portability or, the ability to transfer data from on service to another in a machine readable format. This is outlined but not specifically enough defined by the GDPR to be fulfilled by all organizations. We are still lacking many of the infrastructural elements such as laws, contracts, technology standards and harmonized user-centered services that could support this.

The notion of building a personal data society enabled by empowering citizens to manage and process their data has many names globally but in the Nordic countries we call it MyData. It asserts that individuals should have the digital right to control their own data. This in turn opens up the opportunity to build really person-centric services for which businesses and organizations can use data create services that can use more information about a person than a single organization can handle. 

In a world where the notion of MyData is fulfilled, you will not be locked into using a single service and can easily change service providers without the problem of leaving behind all the data, history, contacts, photos, texts or whatever you have used the previous service for. 

The MyData White Paper defines three MyData Principles.

***1. Human centric control and privacy:** 
Individuals are empowered actors, not passive targets, in the management of their personal lives both online and offline – they have the right and practical means to manage their data and privacy.

***2. Usable data:** 
It is essential that personal data is technically easy to access and use – it is accessible in machine readable open formats via secure, standardized APIs (Application Programming Interfaces). MyData is a way to convert data from closed silos into an important, reusable resource. It can be used to create new services which help individuals to manage their lives. The providers of these services can create new business models and economic growth to the society.

***3. Open business environment:**
Shared MyData infrastructure enables decentralized management of personal data, improves interoperability, makes it easier for companies to comply with tightening data protection regulations, and allows individuals to change service providers without proprietary data lock-ins.*

### Glossary

**MyData:**
The notion of enabling the human-centric control and processing of personal data that is created over a wide range of applications, service providers and organizations. MyData is based on the ability of a person to transfer the data from one service to another in a machine readable form. MyData is thus an enabler for an open business environment that is created around the person, not the organizations.  

**Data portability:** 
If I want to switch service providers without losing all my history, contacts, photos and other information or be able to use this data elsewhere, I want to be able have data portability. The ability to transfer your data from one service to another in a simple manner and using a machine-readable format is called data portability.

### Sources 

[The MyData Global organization](https://mydata.org/)
[The MyData White Paper (in English)](https://julkaisut.valtioneuvosto.fi/handle/10024/78439)
[The MyData White Paper (in Finnish, updated 2018)](https://julkaisut.valtioneuvosto.fi/handle/10024/160954)
