---
title: GDPR in a nutshell
---
# Module 2 : GDPR in a nutshell

**Learning outcomes of the module**

By taking this module you will know the new rights gained with the GDPR, which is the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation, that came into full force on the 26th of May, 2018. Knowing that these rights exist, is necessary to exercise them.

Essentially, you have the right

- to obtain information on the processing of your personal data
- of access to your data
- to rectification of your data
- to the erasure of your data and to be forgotten
- to restrict the processing of your data
- to data portability
- to object to the processing of your data
- not to be subject to a decision based solely on automated processing
- to be notified of a security breach into your personal data in 72 hours

On top of these, the data processor can’t even store your personal data, if it fails to meet all of these six lawful bases to do so.

# What are the lawful bases for processing? 

The lawful bases for processing are set out in Article 6 of the GDPR. At least one of these must apply whenever you process personal data: 

# (a) Consent: 
 the individual has given clear consent for you to process their personal data for a specific purpose.

# (b) Contract:
 the processing is necessary for a contract you have with the individual, or because they have asked you to take specific steps before entering into a contract.

# (c) Legal obligation:
 the processing is necessary for you to comply with the law (not including contractual obligations).

# (d) Vital interests:
 the processing is necessary to protect someone’s life.

# (e) Public task:
 the processing is necessary for you to perform a task in the public interest or for your official functions, and the task or function has a clear basis in law.

# (f) Legitimate interests:
 the processing is necessary for your legitimate interests or the legitimate interests of a third party unless there is a good reason to protect the individual’s personal data which overrides those legitimate interests. (This cannot apply if you are a public authority processing data to perform your official tasks.)

However, an individual always has the right to object to processing for the purposes of direct marketing, whatever lawful basis applies.
