---
title: Know what kind of data you created and what YOU could do with the data in different services
---
# Know what kind of data you created and what YOU could do with the data in different services

We people are restricted by the amount of information that we can process ourselves. The result of this is a number of cognitive biases that have been come into being through our processes of learning and building routines to make it more easy to operate in our daily lives. While we are preoccupied by work, we create stress, might eat too much and build up some excess weight over time. 

Machines and algorithms are not similarly limited and can augment our attention by analyzing data about us while we go about with our daily lives. The element that can connect the aspects of our lives is data. The data wearables can generate might help us understand how stressed we are at a given time by following our heart rates and reminding us to relax when we are subject to prolonged stress. The weight data generated by our weight scales can easily be digitized and sent to the cloud to be used by other applications. Most of the things we use to make our foods contain information about how many calories and what types of elements they are made of. As digital data, this could be combined with the other types of data to give us a view into how much we are eating in relation to our weight goals over a given period. 

We speak about the digitalization of business and society, we hear a lot about emerging technologies like the blockchain but the thing that they are essentially for is the processing of information in the form of data. Data is fundamental. Having more control at first about the privacy related to it and, ever increasingly in the future, the ability to get it back to us consumers and citizens from the services we use in our data, will help us augment our daily lives with smart and more data-informed services that help us be better at what we want to be able to do in our daily lives.

We are still taking the first steps towards this type of society and the large digital consumer ecosystems we use today are showing the way. But a key issue related to them is that maybe we as consumers and citizens should be able to have more choice in how our data is used than just being limited to the ecosystems we chose at some point.

One of the goals for Digirights.info is to help you explore the emerging opportunities in both privacy issues and also having the possibility to data portability, or using the data that you have generated or that has been generated about you to for your benefit.
